###############
Getting started
###############

To get MobArena up and running on your server, you'll first have to
download it and stick it in your server's plugins-folder.

When the plugin has been loaded up, you'll have to build an arena if you
haven't already. Then it's time to set it up. Follow the instructions on
the [[Arena Setup]] page, which has all the information you'll need to
get your arena up and running in no time at all. After setup, you're
ready to play! Check out the [[Using MobArena]] page for a brief
description of the usage commands.

The default arena setup is only meant as a starting point, so you may
want to configure the waves, the rewards, the classes, or perhaps some
of the arena-specific settings. The various pages on this wiki will help
you configure MobArena to your liking. Here are a couple of links to get
you started:

-  [[Setting up the config-file]]
-  [[Setting up the waves]]
-  [[MobArena Commands]]

Also make sure to have a look at the [[Item and Reward Syntax]] page, if
you're planning to change the classes or the rewards. MobArena uses its
own semi-compact item syntax in the config-file, so you'll need to get
familiar with it to get things like enchantments and sub-types to work.

****************
More information
****************

Always make sure to check the pages on the wiki when you're in doubt -
99% of the information you'll ever need is right here. Check out the
[[list of wiki
pages\|https://github.com/garbagemule/MobArena/wiki/\_pages]] to see if
maybe you'd be able to find your answer there. You can also check the
project pages on
[[Spigot\|https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/mobarena.34110/]] and
[[Bukkit\|http://dev.bukkit.org/bukkit-plugins/mobarena/]].

***********************
Suggestions, bugs, etc.
***********************

If you think you have found a bug, or if you have a suggestion for the
plugin, you can create a ticket here on Github. Make sure to be as
descriptive as possible, because the more information you can provide,
the easier it is to do something about your bug report or feature
request.

If you'd rather have a little chat about the plugin, you can visit the
[[IRC channel\|http://webchat.esper.net/?channels=#mobarena]] (#mobarena
@ EsperNet) - please note that IRC is *idle chat*, which means people
will appear to be in the channel, but they might not be at their
computers when you join. Hop on, ask your question, and then hang around
until you get an answer; it may be seconds, minutes or hours, but there
is no harm in hanging around the channel indefinitely (as many people
do).
